when we take a look at the indicators we
find that the stock market generally
moves up in an exponential manner the
ones confidence is created more and more
people get into the market causing the
price to spike higher and higher there's
no slowing down until it pops you came
here for the truth today we're going to
look at this indicator as well as many
others let's begin
diagnosis halitosis the SMP 500 50-day
moving average is one of the technical
signals to watch as some worn on
deteriorating market breaths so the
technical analysis is something that I
don't really like to get into too much
but I do believe it's interesting to see
those who pay attention to the
technicals and they are saying we have
some cause for concern they may use the
50-day moving average they may use the
200-day moving average and these are the
primary indicators for a lot of those
involved in technicals I think it's
interesting just to see it the way that
they are describing it and to get a
different view of the subject instead of
always just looking at the fundamentals
we need to look at the micro-level as
well I think it's important let's move
on total credit I thought this was
really interesting I definitely wanted
to share it with you because we always
talk about a rather significant
expansion an exponential expansion as I
mentioned but in this case here total
credit it's a little different now
leading up into the financial crisis we
had an expansion of credit that the
world had never seen before
and that was without QE and zero
interest rates yet when they started to
interject into this market giving it the
stimulus with the QE giving it to zero
interest rate for eight long years
actually generated a tepid expansion of
credit and you can see that for yourself
now of course that's a relative figure
here but as soon as that market began to
decline real deflation began to set in
the central bank's implemented their
policies and they tried to get this
market
be kick-started but the results of which
have not been that good in terms of
total credit expansion now of course we
had rapid expansion previously but just
imagine what they have done leading up
unto this point and they still haven't
been able to get to that level that we
experienced previously this is showing
you that every dollar printed into the
system has less of an effect that is
almost going to happen right away not
right the next day but it will happen it
will take an effect quite fast and that
is really showing itself right here in
the total credit expansion that we've
seen that's not to say that credits not
expanding and that's not to say that the
central banks aren't gonna continue with
their policies that just means that
every time they print money it has less
of an effect very interesting to say the
least let's show you this one all
connected in with that total credit
change as a percentage and you could see
this here credit expansion has been far
weaker than 1990 to 2008 trillions of
monetary easing and fiscal stimulus plus
zero interest rates and this as a result
this isn't just weak it's extremely
fragile and I do believe that that is
something that is not being addressed
look during the financial crisis
everything was coming down now it's all
a matter of trying to get it to go back
up get back up to where it was before
the stock market's up that's for sure
there's no doubt about it but everything
hasn't moved up the way that it had
prior to the financial crisis it's
simply we are looking at the stock
market going up that's one of the only
indicators that is rising right now
that's doing well right now when you
look at the unemployment rate we know
the truth about that it's a fact I mean
even most of the general public knows at
this time that the unemployment isn't
what they're telling us so this right
here is just one more indicator showing
you that credit expansion that's the way
this system works it's on credit it's on
debt it's on
fictional idea of wealth and so we
needed to continue we need to accelerate
but it's not doing that it's very very
stagnant and if they decide to bring up
interest rates even further the markets
cannot handle if the economy absolutely
can't handle it
but the average individual saver might
be able to actually save a few bucks but
we'll see where that goes
let's move on to the next one this here
is very telling to me I believe it's the
most important chart of the day and NYSC
margin debt and the S&P 500 real values
adjusted to present-day dollars look at
this the red line is your margin debt
and the blue line is your SMP 500 and
what we need to note is that margin debt
is increasing significantly and that
shows me that while we do have the
market rising a lot of it isn't actual
people's investment they're borrowing
that they assume that they can do so in
order to basically have this wave that's
continuing for years now and just ride
it up until infinity but it doesn't work
like that and when the market decides to
come down when they central banks pull
the liquidity from the system and caused
this crash this will drop much faster
than it rose it happens every single
time you could see this right here just
with the SMP in the previous instances
and perhaps I'll do an entire video
about that
but what we will have is a very rapid
decline in the margin that in the fact
that people will have to give up what
they've had here because they use their
own securities their own equities as
collateral to buy more they are doing so
in this very silly scheme that they've
devised and it's all because they
believe that's
rocks can rise forever and ever but of
course we know that it doesn't happen
like that a lot of people know that as
well but they just say that they'll be
able to sell when the time comes well
you would be one of the very very few
people that actually do that look at
what happened during the financial
crisis it wasn't that long ago although
it seems like yesterday and if you think
about how many people were hurt how many
people you know ended up on the edge of
the building when they lost everything
because of things like this not because
they put in all their money because they
put more than they could ever afford
using things like margin it is very
dangerous it is something that I do not
recommend at all but yet more and more
people are doing it and you could see
that right here in this chart good luck
to very technical indicators here I just
want to very briefly very briefly
mention these sp500 puts Q is at the
highest level since 2004 making the
price of tail hedges expensive relative
to the price of ATM options it doesn't
really matter all I'm just trying to
show you here is that this is yet
another indicator that has risen even
past what we had seen during the
financial crisis how many times how many
times do I mention the fact that we are
actually worse off than the financial
crisis but it doesn't matter as long as
the SMP 500 continues to gain people
will ignore reality that's fine please
do as you wish on august 8 2017 the
total number of Vics call options traded
hit an all-time high this is interesting
here the VIX has been at a very very
stagnant level for such a long period of
time there's been a little blips here
and there but ultimately it is down to
such a low level that the it sort of
seems like don't worry the central banks
are here to take care of everything
that's the general view of traders of
analysts of those in the financial end
if anything goes wrong the central bank
will be there to be the lender of last
resort so we have no reason to worry and
some degree we could agree with that
there's no doubt however what we have
seen is that they could have done so
during the financial crisis they could
have done so during the dot-com boom and
every other crisis before that but they
didn't why because central banks pull
liquidity intentionally in order to
cause crises in order to consolidate
power and control and wealth and they do
so successfully every single time they
are able to create conglomerates within
the system they were able to basically
nationalize corporations that they want
they're able to eviscerate certain
competition and form monopolies and they
do so within these crises so pay
attention very closely as we enter the
next phase if you found this video
informative please give me a thumbs up
last but not least if you found these
videos informative I know that you will
find my books the money GPS and my new
release global economic collapse even
more informative so check these books
out at Amazon the links are in the
description below
take care